libdnf5 "actions" plugin documentation (#618)
rpm-software-management/dnf5: doc/libdnf5_plugins/actions.8.rst

    the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    Libdnf is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with libdnf.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. _actions_plugin_ref-label:

======================
libdnf5 actions Plugin
======================

Description
===========

The plugin allows to define actions to be executed during libdnf5 plugin callbacks.
Each action is hooked to one specific callback. Actions for pre_transaction and
post_transaction callbacks may define a (glob-like) filtering rule on the package
NEVRA or package files, as well as whether the package is incomming or outgoing.

Configuration
=============

The plugin does not extend the standard configuration. However, it reads "actions" files.

The action files are readed from ``<libdnf5_plugins_config_dir>/actions.d/`` directory. Only files

> with ".actions" extension are readed.

Reviewer: "are readed" -> "are read" (used twice)

Reviewer: Also, you first use `"actions" files`, but then it's always referred to as `action files`. It would be better to be consistent.

Reviewer: The second occurrence of "readed" remained: Only files with ".actions" extension are **readed**.

Action file format
==================

Empty lines and lines that start with a '#' character (comment line) are ignored.

Each non-comment line defines an action and consists of four items separated by colons: ``callback_name:package_filter:direction:command``.

``callback_name``

* ``pre_base_setup``
* ``post_base_setup``
* ``pre_transaction``
* ``post_transaction``

``package_filter``
   A (glob-like) filtering rule aplied on the package NEVRA (also in the shortened forms) or package files.

>    Empty filter means to execute the command once with no information about the package.

Reviewer: "to execute" - "executing"

   The "*" filter means executing the command for each package in the transaction that matches the ``direction`` filter.
   The filter can be non-empty only for ``pre_transaction`` and ``post_transaction`` callbacks.

``direction``

>    Filters packets by their direction (coming into the system/going out of the system) in a transaction.

Reviewer: "packets" -> "packages"

..
    Copyright Contributors to the libdnf project.

    This file is part of libdnf: https://github.com/rpm-software-management/libdnf/

    Libdnf is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    Libdnf is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with libdnf.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. _actions_plugin_ref-label:

======================
libdnf5 Actions Plugin
======================

Description
===========

> The plugin allows to define actions to be executed during libdnf5 plugin callbacks.
> Each action is hooked to one specific callback. Actions for pre_transaction and
> post_transaction callbacks may define a (glob-like) filtering rule on the package
> NEVRA or package files, as well as whether the package is incomming or outgoing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This plugin allows defining actions to be executed during transactions through libdnf5
callback hooks. Each action is hooked to one specific callback. Actions for ``pre_transaction``
and ``post_transaction`` callbacks may define a (glob-like) filtering rule on the package
NEVRA or package files, as well as whether the package is incoming or outgoing.
```

Author: @Conan-Kudo Thanks. I used the suggested fixes with one change. I omitted "during transactions" from the first sentence. Some callback hooks are not related to a transaction and are called even if no transaction occurs.

Configuration
=============

The plugin does not extend the standard configuration. However, it reads "actions" files.

> The actions files are read from ``<libdnf5_plugins_config_dir>/actions.d/`` directory. Only files

Reviewer 2: Can these config files be shipped in `/usr` rather than `/etc`?

> with ".actions" extension are readed.

Reviewer: I mentioned it before, but it probably got lost in other messages:
".actions" extension are readed -> ".actions" extension are read

Author: @pkratoch Sorry. I thought I fixed it. It was probably another occurrence of the same. All occurrences of the word "read" are now fixed.
